Release 3.9 (#1002)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: changelog/front-commerce-3.9-2.34.mdx

---
title: "Release: 3.9 & 2.34"
authors: pierre
date: 2024-11-21T11:11
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

## Consent Mode V2, Consistent Price Display, Gezy advanced capabilities and Extension Features API

We know you're likely busy preparing for the Black Friday and the holiday
season, so do we! 🎄 \

> For the last release of the year, we managed to deliver a handful of new
> features and improvements in Front-Commerce 3.9 and 2.34.

Reviewer: I'm not a big fan of the "managed to deliver", I would suggest more something in the lines of:

```suggestion
For our final release of the year, we successfully introduced several new features and enhancements in Front-Commerce versions 3.9 and 2.34.
```

We've enhanced our analytics capabilities to support
[Consent Mode V2 (for European Economic Area compliance)](https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/13695607),
**in both Front-Commerce 2.x and 3.x versions**. This update brings more
granular control over user consent for analytics services, ensuring compliance
with privacy regulations while maintaining effective data collection.

[![Consent Mode V2 compliance (with the Consent Mode Inspector Chrome extension)](./assets/3.9/consent-mode-v2.png)](./assets/3.9/consent-mode-v2.png)

This change includes:

- **Granular Consent Options**: Users can now provide more specific consent for
  different aspects of data collection and usage.
- **Google Analytics and GTM integrations**: Our Google Analytics and GTM
  plugins now supports Consent Mode V2 out of the box.
- **Flexible Consent Management**: The new `withConsent` adapter method enables
  dynamic updates to consent settings as user preferences change, for custom
  plugins.

Please refer to our
[Granular Consent Updates](/docs/3.x/guides/analytics/getting-started#granular-consent-updates)
to learn more about implementing Consent Mode V2 in your Front-Commerce project.

> For existing projects, follow our

Reviewer: **note to self:** it would be good to have a little "debug" example in the guide of using the chrome extension "Consent Mode Inspector Chrome"

Author: That's what I thought also yesterday!

Could you do it please?

with the previous price components (it reuses them).

:::

Learn more about this feature and how to configure it in our
[Display Prices with or without Taxes](/docs/3.x/guides/display-prices-with-or-without-taxes)
guide and the
[Price Display](/docs/3.x/extensions/theme-chocolatine/reference/price-display)
reference page.

## Gezy: advanced capabilities for demanding merchants

Building on our previous releases, we kept improving our Gezy integration to
support advanced capabilities. This release includes support for **facet filters
on Product Listing Pages (PLP)** and Search results, allowing users to easily
refine their searches and find products quickly.

We've also added guest cart support, enabling users to add items without logging
in, which streamlines the purchasing process. Additionally, **Company accounts
allow businesses to register** and access tailored functionalities. The addition
of several account-related features (address management, password update, order
history…) finalizes the account management experience for both individuals and
companies.

The checkout process has been enhanced with **sophisticated payment and shipping

> methods**, meaning that most Payment and Shipping available in Gezy are now
> supported by Front-Commerce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods**, meaning that most Payment and Shipping methods available in Gezy are now
supported by Front-Commerce.
```

Author: Applied

    it
  - it is now possible to toggle account registration for individuals and
    companies using configurations. The registration page will display a message
    and a button to contact the merchant if account registration is disabled
  - user information screens now support phone number for platforms that require
    it
  - the theme now relies on a platform agnostic `reference` field for product,
    cart items and orders to support platforms where a SKU is not relevelant
  - promotional prices are now displayed on each cart item line.

- **Service worker:**
  - we tackled a long-standing feature request from our customers to reduce
    service-worker logs verbosity. We now allow to configure the disablement of
    service-worker logs in `entry.worker.ts` using the `disableDevLogs` and
    `disableStorefrontContentDevLogs` options. **We changed the default behavior
    and disabled Workbox dev logs** but maintained Storefront Content ones.
- **Storybook**
  - public configuration are now available in Storybook based on the definition
    in `front-commerce.config.ts`
  - we added new stories for several components (related to price display
    configuration). Browse

>     [our demo's styleguide](https://magento2.front-commerce.app/styleguide) to

Reviewer: I think we would need to deploy the styleguide on production.

Currently we have [devOnly](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/cloud/front-commerce-deployments/front-commerce-v3/front-commerce-v3-core/-/settings/ci_cd) set in our environments for deployments.

Author: Agreed. @Kagaminara could you do it as part of the demos update please?

Reviewer 2: Done!
